How is your day
What are you doing?
I understand that breaking up with someone can be very painful.
I'm filling out a job application.
Are you finished with school already?
Penny's emotional response is originated.
I have one more semester, but it would be great to have a job lined up.
How is your day going?
Crazy man. Call the police!
This is a man who loves me, but in his own stupid way.
Quite busy. I'm preparing for my presentation tomorrow on our marketing strategy. 
I'm not even half done yet.
You must feel stressed out now.
I know you said you didn't want to talk.
That's an understatement.
What are you doing now?
I'm playing pool with my friends at a pool hall.
I didn't know you play pool. 
Tell us again how you screwed up and got Penny back together with her boyfriend. 
Are you having fun?
On the other hand, if things don't go well with Leonard.
I'm having a great time.  
That story gets better every time you hear it.
He's the kind of guy that gets into a relationship for.
Maybe I should call Mike and apologize.
All right, the cat's alive.Let's go to dinner.
I should just say "I am done with him.”
How about you? 
You'll have a billion more people to annoy instead of me.
I'm taking a break from my homework.  
There seems to be no end to the amount of work I have to do.
I'm glad I'm not in your shoes.
Excuse me, do you have the time?
Do you know what time it is?
Hi. Is this seat taken?
Do you mind if I sit here?
Pardon me. Do you know what time this place closes?
That is a really nice.
Do they have other colors available?
I’ve been looking for a hat like that to give to my friend.
Thanks for the suggestion. 
What team do you support?
Okay, I’m totally changing the topic now, but I was wondering
That's what you did.
I assumed, as in a number of languages, that the gesture was part of the phrase.
As the teacher, it's your obligation
Why are you learning Chinese?
If I were you, I'd be more concerned.
I need to use your window.
I'll tell you what's going on.
It is dark in that room.	
Do you think I'm to blame?	
Excuse me, are you American?	
She was busy with housework.	
Have you received an answer to your letter?	
How about another piece of cake?	
She divorced him.	
That company went bankrupt.	
He's sleeping like a baby.	
I met him by chance.	
She kicked him.	
I'd like a ticket for that flight please.	
Could I please have one more can of beer?	
How much does this cost?	
My family is not all that large.	
That's too bad.	
Is it close to the subway station?	
He got into his car in a hurry.	
He did well for a beginner.	
My grandmother lives by herself.	
Don't you have an air conditioner?	
You can't trust computer translation.	
Yes. If everything goes alright, I'll be getting my bachelors degree in August. Then I need to start looking for a job.
She went to the museum by taxi.	
This job is killing me.	
We will take care of this for you.	
Take whichever one you like.	
He is acting on his own behalf.	
I'll buy you a drink.	
What time do you have?
New US warship cracks hull in Panama Canal
Trump singles out reporter, again
Clinton doubles TV ad spending
Iran leader: Clinton and Trump prove us right
3 GOPers warn of constitutional crisis
Where 4 swing states stand
Path to victory is in this map
How the Electoral College works
Women's cancer deaths could jump
Suspect in 2 cop killings captured
Blogger's Itzhak Perlman defies ISIS
Report: MH370 spiraled into sea
Black church fire signed 'Vote Trump'
Obamacare vs. other health systems
Val Kilmer: 'No cancer whatsoever'
Caddy pockets $1M in winnings
Married 74 years, died the same day
Gawker, Hulk Hogan settle lawsuit
Lil Wayne cuts interview short
Actress may be dating Prince Harry